












Encyclopedia Britannica | Britannica










































Explore




Search Britannica





Click here to search








Search Britannica





Click here to search












   Subscribe


Login










History & Society
Science & Tech
Biographies
Animals & Nature
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
Money


Games & Quizzes
Videos
On This Day
One Good Fact
Dictionary
New Articles

History & Society

Lifestyles & Social Issues
Philosophy & Religion
Politics, Law & Government
World History

Science & Tech

Health & Medicine
Science
Technology

Biographies

Browse Biographies

Animals & Nature

Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates
Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates
Environment
Fossils & Geologic Time
Mammals
Plants

Geography & Travel

Geography & Travel

Arts & Culture

Entertainment & Pop Culture
Literature
Sports & Recreation
Visual Arts


Companions
Demystified
Image Galleries
Infographics
Lists
Podcasts
Spotlight
Summaries
The Forum
Top Questions
#WTFact


100 Women
Britannica Kids
Saving Earth
Space Next 50
Student Center





    You have reached Britannica's public website.
    Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account.











Search Britannica





Click here to search











Ask the Chatbot
Games & Quizzes
History & Society
Science & Tech
Biographies
Animals & Nature
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
Money
Videos















 









            October 21, 2024
        



 Time After Time 

                    Today is Back to the Future Day—a tribute to the film franchise that starred Michael J. Fox—marking the date of Marty McFly’s destination (October 21, 2015) in Back to the Future Part II. That got us thinking about a few things, including the theoretical possibility of time travel, the grandfather paradox, and other science-fiction works set in a future that has already passed, such as Nineteen Eighty-four, Soylent Green, Escape from New York, The Running Man, and Blade Runner.
                













Wormholes and Their Probable Relation to Time Travel
Science in Seconds (www.scienceinseconds.com)











Doctor Who: Still Time-Traveling After All These Years
BBC











The Time Machine by H.G. Wells: Progenitor of Time-Travel Tales
© 1960 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.; photograph from a private collection




Discover More


Video: What Is the Grandfather Paradox?


Blade Runner Was Set in 2019. So Where Are All the Flying Cars?




 Appleseed Nation The United States has its share of folklore, featuring larger-than-life characters such as Paul Bunyan and John Henry. But some myths turn out to be true, as in the case of John Chapman, also known as Johnny Appleseed. Since today is National Apple Day in the U.S., here’s more on the man who walked the land with nothing but a bag of apple seeds and a dream. First stepsJohn Chapman was born in Massachusetts in 1774. Little is known about his early life except that his mother died when he was young and his father fought in the American Revolutionary War. He planted his first apple tree nurseries in the Allegheny Valley in Pennsylvania in 1798 and then began traveling west through Ohio. Long row to hoeWalking for miles every day and sleeping outdoors, he kept well ahead of pioneers, showing a knack for predicting where they would settle and planting nurseries in those spots. He planted mostly cider apples which, though small and unpleasant to eat, can be used to produce hard cider, an alcoholic beverage that was a staple of the American diet, especially for pioneers who didn’t have access to sanitary drinking water. Storied lifeOral accounts of Chapman’s activities began to circulate, focusing as much on his wilderness skills as his eccentric clothing: instead of a shirt, he usually wore a sack with holes for his head and arms and often went barefoot. He was also a follower of Swedish theologian Emanuel Swedenborg and insisted on treating all animals with kindness, even mosquitoes and rattlesnakes. He died from exposure in 1845, having spread apple trees as far west as Illinois or Iowa. 





Popular on Britannica




Articles


One Direction


War and Peace


slavery


Yahya Sinwar


Bouvet Island


Aaron Judge


list of serial killers


Richard Ramirez


Indian Rebellion of 1857


Statue of Unity




Show More 
Show Less 







Features


What Causes the Northern and Southern Lights?


Columbus Day and Its Discontents


Columbus Day


Is Spontaneous Human Combustion Real?


Cruel and Unusual Punishments: 15 Types of Torture


Why Are U.S. Elections Held on Tuesdays?


What’s Inside the Great Pyramid?


Why Does Hair Turn Gray?


Radium Girls: The Women Who Fought for Their Lives in a Killer Workplace


Is the Piano a Percussion or a Stringed Instrument?




Show More 
Show Less 







Lists


10 Famous Clowns: From Comical to Creepy


10 Famous Duels


7 of History's Most Notorious Serial Killers 


Secret Service Code Names of 11 U.S. Presidents


9 Things You Might Not Know About Adolf Hitler


6 of the World's Most Dangerous Birds


Rediscovered Artists: 6 Big Names That Time Almost Forgot


5 Remarkably Close U.S. Presidential Elections


Titanosaurs: 8 of the World's Biggest Dinosaurs


Pablo Escobar: 8 Interesting Facts About the King of Cocaine




Show More 
Show Less 














Investing


Trading


Retirement


Household Finance


Finance & the Economy


Companies













Social Security COLA 2025: What you need to know













How convertible bonds balance income, equity, and risk













How much does it really cost to buy a home?













The rise of hyperscalers: Reshaping cloud computing and business








 New on Britannica 









												Hurricane Helene

Hurricane Helene produced a wide swath of damage and loss of life, extending from Florida to Tennessee, Georgia and North Carolina.











												“Strange Fruit”

This searing anti-lynching protest song, an early civil rights anthem, was first recorded in 1939 by singer Billie Holiday.











												10 depictions of Hell

Throughout history, many artists have attempted to illustrate the place where the spirits of the damned reside and are punished.











												Immortal jellyfish

This creature is renowned for its ability to evade death through a process that brings it back to an earlier stage of development.








Featured Games
See All











Quordle

			Can you solve four words at once?
		











Tightrope
A daily trivia game









Blossom
Pick the best words









Octordle
The party starts at eight









Pilfer
A delightful ruthless word game









The Missing Letter
A daily crossword with a twist









Twofer Goofer
Think you know it, poet?









Victordle
Play head-to-head!









Sudoku
Your daily logic challenge






Trending Quizzes
See All Quizzes















Where in America is That?

						Crisscross the U.S. by placing these famous landmarks.
					













From Athena to Zeus: Basics of Greek Mythology

						Do you know which hero took a dip in the River Styx? Or what mysteries lurk inside the Labyrinth?
					













Ultimate Animals Quiz

						What is a rattlesnake’s rattle made of? What animals can go over 180 miles an hour?
					
















Guess the Language! Quiz

						Can you recognize a language by its greeting?
					













Best Picture Movie Quote Quiz

						Take this quiz or you may regret it. Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon, and for the rest of your life.
					













American Civil Rights Movement Quiz

						Test your knowledge of Americans’ tumultuous fight to end racial segregation and discrimination.
					
















Name That Thing: Tools

						A handy quiz to test your tool acumen.
					













The Dog Breed Quiz

						Find out which breed can outrun a cheetah, which breed was created by monks, and much more.
					













Baking and Baked Goods Quiz

						You may have a sweet tooth, but how much do you know about baking and baked goods? Test your knowledge with this quiz.
					













First Ladies of the United States Quiz

						They have been hostesses, helpers, advisers, gatekeepers, guardians, confidantes, and sometimes formidable powers behind...
					















Featured Videos
See All Videos









            How to use Narcan
        

            UC Davis Health
        







How to use Narcan
















Meet the medication that treats opioid use disorder
















Opioid addiction: A story of recovery
















What are the risks of prescription opioids?
















How medically-assisted treatment can reduce the stigma of opioid use

















Explore Britannica



History & Society








Why Do We Carve Pumpkins at Halloween?









9 Things You Didn’t Know Were Named After People 





Science & Tech








How Deadly Is Quicksand? 









Is the Number of Hurricanes Increasing?





Biographies








Ratan Tata









Clara Bow





Animals & Nature








9 Animals That Look Like Leaves









Why Do Some Animals Hibernate?





Geography & Travel








8 of the World’s Most-Remote Islands









Transit Stations Worth Seeing





Arts & Culture








Fictional Languages You Can Really Learn









11 Banned Books Through Time






Calculators







Mortgage Payment Calculator

									Estimate your monthly mortgage payments with our free mortgage calculator. Account for interest rates, compound
    frequency and pay back schedule.








Compound Interest Calculator

									Compounding means getting returns on your previous returns plus your initial investment. Learn how to grow your
    savings with our compound interest calculator.








Percentage Increase Calculator

									Calculate the increase from one value to another with our free percentage increase calculator. Evaluate population
    growth, inflation, stock values and more.








Retirement Income Calculator

									Are you on track for retirement? Use our free retirement calculator to help determine how much you'll need to save
    each year to retire at your desired age.








Time Value of Money (TVM) Calculator

									The time value of money (TVM) principle asserts that the same amount of money is worth more now than in the future.
    Use our TVM calculator to estimate future value, present value & more.















More From Britannica



ProCon.org
Award-winning ProCon.org promotes critical thinking, education, and informed citizenship by presenting the pro and con arguments to controversial issues in a straightforward, nonpartisan, freely accessible way.




Britannica Money
Discover all you need to know about retirement, investing, and household finance, without the jargon or agenda. Get reliable guidance, insight, and easy-to-understand explanations, written, edited, and verified to Britannica’s exacting standards.




Advocacy for Animals

								Presenting Advocacy for Animals, a blog focused primarily on animal rights, wildlife conservation, environmental health and safety, and the legal and cultural issues related to these topics.  This blog is a source of information and a call to action. It is meant to be a provocation and a stimulus to thought regarding humanity’s relationship with nonhuman animals.
							




Alain Elkann Interviews
Alain has been writing a weekly interview column for the Italian newspaper La Stampa since 1989. His interviews celebrate some of the best known and successful personalities of the present day.







 



History at your fingertips –
      Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox!
   





Enter your email



Subscribe



            By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica.
            Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email.
        


Thank you for subscribing!
Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox.








                    Our Sites 


Britannica Kids
Merriam-Webster
School & Library
Melingo
Britannica Books
Escola
Britannica English-Arabic
Nglish Sp-En Translation
ProCon
Britannica Merch






                    Mobile 


iPhone App
iPad App






                    International 


Australia
Brazil
China
Japan
Latin America
United Kingdom






                    Content & Editorial 


Encyclopaedia Britannica's Syndication API
International Publishing
Site Map
New Articles






                    Stay Connected 




Facebook
X
YouTube
Instagram












About Us & Legal Info
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Diversity

©2024 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.

















